.TH OPENNHRP-SCRIPT 8 "20 May 2009" "" "OpenNHRP Documentation"

.SH NAME
opennhrp-script \- NHRP peer configuration script

.SH DESCRIPTION
NHRP peer configuration script is used invoked by
.BR opennhrp (8).
.PP
This script can be used to establish a direct NBMA peer to peer connection
after NHRP Resolution Reply has been received, but prior to injecting the
peer address to kernel neighbor table. This could be to insert firewall rules
allowing the traffic and/or establishing an IPsec connection (or some other
secure communication channel). The script is also called when the cached peer
information expires.

.SH OPERATION
When
.B opennhrp
needs to invoke the peer configuration script, it defines a set of variables
in the environment and then executes the script with exactly one argument.
The argument is set to the name of the reason why the script has been invoked.
The following reasons are currently defined:
.BR "interface-up" , " peer-register" , " peer-up" , " peer-down" ,
.BR " nhs-up" , " nhs-down" , " route-up" " and " route-down .

.SH INTERFACE-UP
Interface has been just discovered, or it is has changed state from down
to up. This is the place to clean up old routes if needed.

.SH PEER-REGISTER
A peer registration request has been received. The script is run before the
internal peer cache is altered and this allows the script to reject
registration without it deleting old peers. This could be used to check that
IPsec connection is up or one might encode allowed protocol-addresses in the
certificate and it could be enforced here. This hook is executed synchronously
so it should be fast.

.SH PEER-UP
A peer has been discovered (either by means of static configuration, dynamic
client registration or resolution reply arrival to initiate shortcut).
This hook is invoked right after the peer's NBMA address is available. For all
other than dynamic-map entries the protocol address is available too.
The information will not be injected to the kernel ARP cache until the script
has returned zero. If non-zero return value is returned, the peer entry is
marked as invalid and negative cached for a short period of time.

.SH PEER-DOWN
A peer connection is about to be cleared. This can happend for dynamic client
registrations or cached information. Dynamic client registrations are teared
down when registration holding time expires (and no re-registration has
occured) or if it explicitely removed using Purge Request. Cached entries are
removed when holding time expires (and there has been no traffic to trigger
renewal of the peer address information) or when it is explicitely removed
with Purge Request.

.SH NHS-UP
This is called for NHS right after the first succesful Registration Reply
is received.
This can be used to update application level configuration about which
servers to use.

.SH NHS-DOWN
Informs that the specified NHS is no longer available.

.SH ROUTE-UP
In reply to resolution request we have received a shortcut route with
destination off the NBMA subnetwork. The script should insert appropriate
entry to kernel routing table.

.SH ROUTE-DOWN
The associated shortcut route information is no longer valid and should be
removed from kernel routing table.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B NHRP_TYPE
.RS
For peer-up and peer-down reasons this can be:
\fBstatic\fR (configured information),
\fBdynamic-nhs\fR (configured NHS with only NBMA address known),
\fBdynamic\fR (client registered) or
\fBcached\fR (resolved since we had packets going there).

The nhs-up and nhs-down reasons are called for \fBstatic\fR entries with
register keyword and \fBdynamic-nhs\fR entries.

For peer-register this is always \fBdynamic\fR.

For route-up and route-down reasons this is always defined as \fBroute\fR.

For interface-up reason this is irrelevant, but always defined as
\fBinterface\fR.
.RE

.B NHRP_INTERFACE
.RS
The network interface to which this event is related to.
.RE

.B NHRP_GRE_KEY
.RS
The GRE key assigned to the related network interface.
.RE

.B NHRP_DESTADDR
.RS
Destination protocol address. E.g. for NBMA GRE tunnels this is the IP address
assigned to the tunnel interface being used.
.RE

.B NHRP_DESTPREFIX
.RS
Subnet prefix length for destination protocol address.
.RE

.B NHRP_DESTNBMA
.RS
Defined only for \fBpeer-up\fR and \fBpeer-down\fR reasons. This contains the
NBMA address of the destination. E.g. for NBMA GRE this contains the public IP
of the peer.
.RE

.B NHRP_DESTMTU
.RS
Defined only for \fBpeer-up\fR reasons. This contains the MTU for NBMA
address of the destination.
.RE

.B NHRP_NEXTHOP
.RS
Defined only for \fBroute-up\fR and \fBroute-down\fR reasons. This is the
protocol address of the next hop to be used in routing.
.RE

.B NHRP_PEER_DOWN_REASON
.RS
Defined only for \fBpeer-down\fR reason. This describes why the peer has
been deleted. Currently it is one of \fBexpired\fR, \fBuser-request\fR or
\fBlower-down\fR.
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR opennhrp (8)

.SH AUTHORS
Timo Teras <timo.teras@iki.fi>
